NAA SSO updates (#754)
OfficeDev/Office-Add-in-samples: Samples/auth/Office-Add-in-SSO-NAA/README.md

---
page_type: sample
urlFragment: office-add-in-sso-naa
products:
- office-excel
- office-word
- office-powerpoint
languages:
- javascript
extensions:
  contentType: samples
  technologies:
  - Add-ins
  createdDate: "03/19/2024 10:00:00 AM"
description: "This sample shows how to implement SSO in an Office Add-in by using nested app authentication."
---

# Office Add-in with SSO using nested app authentication (preview)

## Summary

This sample shows how to use MSAL.js nested app authentication (NAA) in an Office Add-in to access Microsoft Graph APIs for the signed in user. The sample displays the signed in user's name and email. It also inserts the names of files from the user's Microsoft OneDrive account into the document.

> IMPORTANT: Nested app authentication is currently in preview. To try this feature you need to join the [Microsoft 365 Insider Program](https://insider.microsoft365.com/join) and choose the **Beta Channel**. Don't use NAA in production add-ins. We invite you to try out NAA in test or development environments and welcome feedback on your experience through GitHub (see https://github.com/OfficeDev/office-js/issues).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [!IMPORTANT]
> Nested app authentication is currently in preview. To try this feature, join the [Microsoft 365 Insider Program](https://insider.microsoft365.com/join) and choose the **Beta Channel**. Don't use NAA in production add-ins. We invite you to try out NAA in test or development environments and welcome feedback on your experience through GitHub (see https://github.com/OfficeDev/office-js/issues).
```

## Features

- Use MSAL.js NAA to get an access token to call Microsoft Graph APIs.
- Use MSAL.js NAA to get information about the user signed in to Office.

## Applies to

> - Word, Excel, and Powerpoint on Windows, Mac, and in a browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Word, Excel, and PowerPoint on Windows, Mac, and on the web.
```

    - In the **Redirect URI** section, ensure that **Single-page application (SPA)** is selected in the drop down and then set the URI to `brk-multihub://localhost:3000`.
    - Select **Register**.

1. On the **Office-Add-in-SSO-NAA** page, copy and save the value for the **Application (client) ID**. You'll use it in the next section.

For more information on how to register your application, see [Register an application with the Microsoft Identity Platform](https://learn.microsoft.com/graph/auth-register-app-v2).

### Configure the sample

1. Clone or download this repository.
1. From the command line, or a terminal window, go to the root folder of this sample at `/samples/auth/Office-Add-in-SSO-NAA`.
1. Open the `src/taskpane/authConfig.ts` file.
1. Replace the placeholder "Enter_the_Application_Id_Here" with the Application ID that you copied.
1. Replace the placeholder "Enter_the_Login_Hint_Here" with your Microsoft 365 user name. For example: **admin@contoso.onmicrosoft.com**.
1. Save the file.

## Run the sample

1. Run the following commands.

`npm install`
`npm run start`

This will start the web server and sideload the add-in to Excel.

> 1. In Excel, on the ribbon, look for the **Show task pane** button and select it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In Excel, look for the **Show task pane** button and select it.
```

1. When the task pane opens, there are two buttons: **Get user data** and **Get user files**.

> 1. Select **Get user data** if you want to see the signed in user's name and email.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. To see the signed in user's name and email, select **Get user data**.
```

> 1. Select **Get user files** to insert the first 10 filenames from the signed in user's Microsoft OneDrive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. To insert the first 10 filenames from the signed in user's Microsoft OneDrive, select **Get user files** .
```

> You will be prompted to consent to the scopes the sample needs when you select the buttons.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You'll be prompted to consent to the scopes the sample needs when you select the buttons.  
```

## Key parts of this sample

The `src/taskpane/authConfig.ts` file contains the MSAL code for configuring and using NAA. It contains a class named AccountManager which manages getting user account and token information.

- The `initialize` function is called from Office.onReady to configure and intitialize MSAL to use NAA.
- The `ssoGetToken` function gets an access token for the signed in user to call Microsoft Graph APIs.
- The `ssoGetUserIdentity` function gets the account information of the signed in user. This can be used to get user details such as name and email.

The `src/taskpane/document.ts` file contains code to write a list of file names, retrieved from Microsoft Graph, into the document. This works for Word, Excel, and PowerPoint documents.

The `src/taskpane/taskpane.ts` file contains code that runs when the user chooses buttons in the task pane. They use the AccountManager class to get tokens or user information depending on which button is chosen.

The `src/taskpane/msgraph-helper.ts` file contains code to construct and make a REST call to the Microsoft Graph API.

## Security reporting

> If you find a security issue with our libraries or services, report the issue to [secure@microsoft)](secure@microsoft).com with as much detail as you can provide. Your submission may be eligible for a bounty through the [Microsoft Bounty](https://aka.ms/bugbounty) program. Don't post security issues to [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-android/issues) or any other public site. We'll contact you shortly after receiving your issue report. We encourage you to get new security incident notifications by visiting [Microsoft technical security notifications](https://technet.microsoft.com/security/dd252948) to subscribe to Security Advisory Alerts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you find a security issue with our libraries or services, report the issue to [secure@microsoft.com](mailto:secure@microsoft.com) with as much detail as you can provide. Your submission may be eligible for a bounty through the [Microsoft Bounty](https://aka.ms/bugbounty) program. Don't post security issues to [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-android/issues) or any other public site. We'll contact you shortly after receiving your issue report. We encourage you to get new security incident notifications by visiting [Microsoft technical security notifications](https://technet.microsoft.com/security/dd252948) to subscribe to Security Advisory Alerts.
```
